What is your name?’
‘Nigel Hicks, Miss Trunchbull,’ Nigel said.
‘That’s better,’ the Trunchbull said. ‘Your hands are filthy, Nigel!
When did you last wash them?’
‘Well, let me think,’ Nigel said. ‘That’s rather difficult to remember
exactly. It could have been yesterday or it could have been the day
before.’

The Trunchbull’s whole body and face seemed to swell up as
though she were being inflated by a bicycle-pump.
‘I knew it!’ she bellowed. I knew as soon as I saw you that you
were nothing but a piece of filth! What is your father’s job, a sewageworker?’
‘He’s a doctor,’ Nigel said. ‘And a jolly good one. He says we’re all
so covered with bugs anyway that a bit of extra dirt never hurts
anyone.’

I'm glad he’s not my doctor,’ the Trunchbull said. ‘And why, might
I ask, is there a baked bean on the front of your shirt?’
‘We had them for lunch, Miss Trunchbull.’
‘And do you usually put your lunch on the front of your shirt,
Nigel? Is that what this famous doctor father of yours has taught you
to do?’
‘Baked beans are hard to eat, Miss Trunchbull. They keep falling
off my fork.’

‘You are disgusting!’ the Trunchbull bellowed. ‘You are a walking
germ-factory! I don’t wish to see any more of you today! Go and stand
in the corner on one leg with your face to the wall!’
‘But Miss Trunchbull…’
‘Don’t argue with me, boy, or I’ll make you stand on your head!
Now do as you’re told!’

Nigel went.

‘Now stay where you are, boy, while I test you on your spelling to
see if you’ve learnt anything at all this past week. And don’t turn
round when you talk to me. Keep your nasty little face to the wall.

Now then, spell “write”.’

‘Which one?’ Nigel asked. ‘The thing you do with a pen or the one
that means the opposite of wrong?’ He happened to be an unusually
bright child and his mother had worked hard with him at home on
spelling and reading.

‘The one with the pen, you little fool.’

Nigel spelled it correctly, which surprised the Trunchbull. She
thought she had given him a very tricky word, one that he wouldn’t
yet have learnt, and she was peeved that he had succeeded.
